# gnuplot_expression_data
We create two scripts to analyze data from gene (i.e., GENE_EXPRESSION.gnu) and mRNA expression (MRNA CLINICAL_ATTRIBUTES.gnu) databases. 
Gene expression generates boxplots associated with the log2 values of a certain gene expressed in distinct breast cancer subtypes. This type of data is provided from the GENT2 database.
MRNA_CLINICAL_ATTRIBUTES produces boxplots based on the mRNA expression of the same gene in various breast cancer subtypes. Because this type of data is derived from the cBioPortal, it may contain extra clinical attribute information. It is good practice to plot the level of expression correlated with the values on the y axis, as well as the clinical aspects for each sample (i.e., patient). To represent this, we can create a color palette based on the clinical features associated with the data. In our case, we consider the Neoplasm Histological Grade (NHG), which corresponds to the severity of the malignancy. As a result, we may assign a distinct color to each NHG and depict each sample as a colored dot dependent on the grade of the malignancy.
Both the preceding scripts are for the command-line program gnuplot. We can, indeed, run the scripts in the gnuplot terminal. The working directory must contain both the .gnu script and the data file(s) to be visualized. The analysis of gene expression requires only one text file, but the processing of mRNA data (from cBioPortal) requires many text files. In the latter situation, each breast cancer subtype must be separated into its own text file.
When we open one of the MRNA_CLINICAL_ATTRIBUTES text files, we see two columns: the first refers to the mRNA expression level of that specific gene in that specific breast cancer subtype, and the second belongs to the NHG (or other kinds of clinical attributes). The NHG in this example is made up of three numbers (i.e., 1, 2, and 3) that indicate the crescent malignancy gravity. We choose to map the color of the NHG using a customized palette. the NHG scale, we picked red for 1, yellow for 2, and blue for 3. As a consequence, we can easily emphasize the distribution of tumor gravity among samples in a defined breast cancer subtype from the resulting figure.
To create a sequence of boxplots with gnuplot, we must handle the tics on the x axis. There is a handy escamotage for placing each box at a specific distance. We can place the tics far apart on the x axis and then utilize them as anchor points for the boxplots. The NHG data can be used in the same way.
